TERESA: Previously,
on "Queen of the South"...
I have a new job now.
As soon as I make enough money,
I'll come for you,
and we're gonna
move in together.
Why are you doing this for me?
It's to help Tony,
get him someplace safe.
(sirens blaring)
Camila Vargas,
you're under arrest.
JAMES: You remember Denny,
our man in
the sheriff's department.
DENNY: I can't stop
thinking about
the other night, and...
I'm at the Willow Street house.
Give me an hour.
She's on her way.
Good. She'll give us
what we need.
KELLY ANNE:
Teresa, it's Kelly Anne.
You need to come to my house
as soon as you can.
These are the ownership
documents filed
for Camila's trawler company.
TERESA:
I never signed these papers.
This has to be fake.
She found paperwork
on some of your companies
in Cole's office.
I would never lie to you.
Let's talk turkey.
Figure a way out
for all parties involved.
(gunshot)
*
(dramatic music)
(horn honking)
KELLY ANNE: Teresa, look out!
(tires screech)
(gasping)
Are you okay?
Yeah, peachy,
considering you almost
just turned me into
a little blonde splat
on that guy's windshield.
I'm sorry.
I must have dozed off.
No, it's okay--listen,
we've been driving all night.
We should rest.
We can't. We have
a meeting to get to.
(siren blaring)
KELLY ANNE: Oh, shit.
Shit. What do we do?
Just stay calm.
Give me the gun.
*
What if he knows about Cole?
You ladies all right?
Saw you swerving back there.
Yeah, I must have
dozed off, sorry.
Been drinking?
No, I'm just really tired.
I've been driving for hours.
*
See your license
and registration?
Sure.
*
Step out of the car, please.
Step out of the car, now.
Wait, no, no, no,
Officer.
This is my fault, okay?
My father passed away,
and we were driving down
to Odessa to make
the arrangements,
and I was too devastated
to drive, and she graciously
offered to drive even though
she's been working all night,
so if you have to give anybody
a ticket, please, give it to me.
*
OFFICER: I'm gonna
let you go with a warning.
If you find yourself getting
tired again, you pull over.
Thank you.
*
Cole Van Awken didn't
show up for work today.
No one can get ahold of him.
Camila's sitting in jail,
and her lead attorney
just disappears?
You think he knows Kelly Anne's
working with us?
Him...
or Camila?
Let's put out a BOLO.
(scoffs)
My guess is,
we're never gonna see
either one of them again.
Okay.
(thunder rumbling)
Okay, listen.
Keep the car running.
If anything goes wrong,
you get out of here
and call Pote, understand?
You sure about this?
There's no other way.
(dramatic music)
*
Is that Cole's wife?
We've been trying to get
ahold of you for hours.
I'm getting out.
What are you talking about?
I'm leaving Dallas
and the business for good.
If this is about
our disagreement...
It has nothing to do with you.
*
It's about this.
This document states me as
the owner of Colibri Trawlers--
the company tied to
the DEA bust at Galveston.
Where'd you get this?
In Cole's files.
Camila was trying to frame me
so she could get herself off.
Bullshit.
Cole confirmed it.
Did you know they were
having an affair?
*
Where is he?
Dead.
*
You know Camila's not
just gonna let you walk away.
There's another set
of documents like this...
with her name on them.
If she comes after me, they'll
go straight to the DEA.
Tell her that.
Wait, look, we both know
Camila has made some mistakes.
But if you come back with me,
I can fix this.
I'll protect you.
She doesn't even have to know.
I don't know what
you're talking about,
and I don't wanna know.
Just promise me,
if she sends someone
after me,
promise it won't be you.
-Teresa...
-Promise.
*
Take care of yourself.
Really.
*
(car door slams,
footsteps departing)
*
WOMAN: Vargas, you got a meeting
with your new attorney
and a visitor.
We're gonna need
a moment of privacy.
What did she say?
She's got files linking you
to the Colibri Trawlers.
She says, if we go after her
or Kelly Anne,
those files
are going to the DEA.
Where's Cole?
Retired.
CAMILA: Teresa hasn't come
to visit since she told me
about the paperwork.
You should have drug her back
by her teeth.
We have more immediate threats
to deal with right now.
JAMES: The judge in your case
is refusing to toss out
the evidence
that the DEA planted.
He set your bail at 2 million.
He thinks you're a flight risk.
Pay it.
And then find Teresa.
We don't have time
for that right now.
Just find her.
The Villalobos brothers
will take care of the rest.
You can't save her now, James.
*
You crossed me once
to protect her.
I won't let that happen again.
*
(register beeping)
Anything else?
Uh, two of those.
*
I'm gonna need to see
some ID for this.
Sorry, store policy.
Yeah.
*
Thanks.
What do you think?
-I like them.
-Yeah?
Good, 'cause I got you one.
Put 'em on.
It's like our disguise.
-Thank you.
-(chuckles)
*
(engine revs)
We're just like
Thelma and Louise.
You know who that is, right?
I'm from Mexico,
not the Moon.
Well, hell, I don't know
what kind of cultural references
are gonna make sense
to a girl from Culiacán.
Culiacán--it sounds
so picturesque.
What was it like
growing up there?
*
It was beautiful.
(phone buzzing)
*
You gonna answer that?
(phone buzzing)
*
CAMILA:
Teresa, it's me.
What do you want?
CAMILA: I know
you spoke with James.
Whatever Cole told you,
it isn't true.
I have the paperwork.
*
I had nothing to do with that.
Cole was acting
on his own accord.
*
Why should I believe you?
CAMILA: You are like
a daughter to me.
I would never betray you
that way.
The only thing I know
is that I can't trust you.
Just come back, Teresa.
CAMILA: Please.
It's too late.
You need to let me go.
I don't want to hurt you,
but I will.
*
Are you threatening me?
You once told me
I was a good partner.
We were never partners.
It's a lie.
*
I'm glad you have
such a good memory,
'cause you'll
remember my words.
CAMILA: Remember this.
Wherever you go,
whatever you do...
I will hunt you down.
*
KELLY ANNE:
(exhales briskly)
That is one scary bitch.
*
KELLY ANNE:
Driveway's here on the left.
*
It's been in the family
for years.
-Secluded.
-Yeah.
No neighborhood
for miles away.
KELLY ANNE:
No cell service either,
so it's just us out here.
Perfect place to lay low,
you know,
get our heads straight.
(birds singing)
Oh, sometimes I'd come up here
after a big fight.
Like my little hideaway.
Cole never knew
where I was going.
(sighs)
Never thought to ask either.
(door creaks)
(security alarm beeping)
(beeping)
You have an alarm.
I have motion sensors
around the property
to keep the bears away.
Anything bigger than a possum
comes on the property,
they'll go off.
Turn it on.
*
(beeping)
(woman speaking indistinctly
over intercom)
What I have to tell you
is between you and me.
No one else needs to hear.
I'll bite.
But nothing's
off the record here.
Anything you say can and will
be held against you,
so I suggest that you...
(click)
You planted the drugs in my car.
That's a hell
of an accusation.
You're gonna need proof.
I don't need proof.
I know.
And you know.
It's the truth.
*
I'll tell you what I know.
I know
you own Colibri Trawlers.
I know you're responsible
for the drugs
we confiscated in Galveston
and the murder
of a DEA Agent.
I know that.
You know that.
And you're gonna sit in here
until I can prove it.
*
You're gonna need
to drop the charges
before it's too late.
Are you threatening me?
*
I'm suggesting...
That you do what's right.
*
(footsteps approaching)
POSTAK: Loya.
*
Thanks for the cigarette.
We got a hit on the BOLO.
Kelly Anne's ID
was used at a gas station
outside of town.
Let's go.
*
These are the last of
the documents implicating you
as the owner
of that trawler company.
So my expert advice--
toss 'em in that fire,
turn it to ash.
And these are the documents
implicating Camila.
Otherwise known
as our smoking gun
and will heretofore
be referred to
as our life insurance policy.
See, I can speak legalese
when I need to.
(chuckles)
We need to keep these safe.
Safe is with the DEA.
If we give these to the DEA,
she'll never stop hunting us.
If we keep these,
she'll have to think twice.
Maybe she'll let us go.
That's a big maybe.
(ominous music)
*
Do you remember when we met?
You told me you had to flee
Mexico because the cartel
murdered your boyfriend.
Yeah, you thought
I was making that up.
*
It's ironic, isn't it?
'Cause now here we are,
you and me, on the run.
How the hell
did it come to this?
We're gonna
get through this, okay?
You're gonna be fine.
I won't let anything
happen to you.
That's sweet, but if Camila
wants us dead,
it's just a matter of time,
so...
I'm gonna take a bath.
*
Guard.
I'm gonna need
to make a phone call.
*
(line trilling)
DENNY: Yeah?
Have you heard from our friends?
DENNY: The Villalobos
brothers are here.
How'd your call with Teresa go?
She didn't buy it.
Have you spoken with James?
Yeah, he says
he has a line on her.
We're waiting on his call now.
Just remember...
you can't kill her.
Not until we have the papers.
And if she puts up a fight?
Then kill her.
And burn whatever rat nest
she's been hiding in.
*
(dark music)
Kelly Anne?
*
(knocking)
Kelly Anne, are you okay?
Kelly Anne, open the door.
*
Kelly Anne, can you hear me?
(grunts)
Can you hear me?
Kelly Anne?
(gasps)
(murmuring)
Kelly Anne! Come on!
*
(coughing)
TERESA: That's it.
(retching)
*
-You're okay.
-(gasping)
(gasping and sobbing)
TERESA: Just breathe.
*
It's okay. Just breathe.
-Here.
-(hoarsely) Thank you.
I wasn't trying to hurt myself,
in case you were wondering.
I understand.
It's okay.
No, it's not.
None of this is okay.
I killed my husband.
I can't ever take that back.
And he lied,
and he cheated on me, yes,
but I took his life.
What does that make me?
It makes you a survivor.
Hmm.
*
I graduated law school
top of my class.
*
I was going somewhere.
Then I met Cole.
I had this dream of us
being a power couple.
*
Wasn't long before
I realized that...
all he wanted me for
was to smile and look pretty.
It's not so easy to do
when you're constantly
being told
how worthless you are.
I'm not a survivor.
I'm a fool.
*
We're both here
because of the men we loved.
*
When I met Guero,
I knew who he was.
I knew the risks,
but I didn't care.
*
Everyone makes mistakes.
But not everyone
survives them.
We will.
(alarm blaring)
*
It's okay. It's Pote.
(keypad beeps, alarm ceases)
*
(speaks Spanish)
-¿Cómo estás?
-Bien.
I always wanted to go camping.
Really?
Go inside, check it out.
You think it's a mistake
bringing him along.
The lighter the load...
faster you run.
You know Camila would have
gone after him to get to me.
They slow us down,
it won't matter
'cause we'll all be dead.
*
POSTAK: Sunglasses, junk food,
and booze.
Looks like a road trip to me.
Look, stop, right there.
Look at that.
Ice cream?
Yeah. They could be
holing up nearby.
Or they could have
eaten it in the car
and be halfway to Mexico
already.
No, we got nothing else
to go on.
Let's get a list
of all the properties
in a 10-mile radius.
All right.
(birds chirping)
TONY: Are we gonna go fishing?
TERESA: No.
I need to teach you
how to shoot.
Listen, you've been around guns
your whole life.
It's time for you to learn
how to protect yourself.
You said you would protect me.
I know, and I will.
But if something happens...
What do you mean?
You want to teach me
how to use a gun,
but you're treating me
like a kid,
and I'm not a kid anymore.
You're right.
The people
who killed your mother...
are still out there.
They're looking for me.
They may come look for you too.
I know it hurts
to think about her,
and I wish I could say
it's gonna get easier.
You don't know
what it feels like.
Yeah, I do.
*
PRIEST:
(speaking Spanish)
*
(gasps)
(dramatic music)
(gunshots)
(all screaming)
*
(gunshot)
(glass clattering)
*
(gunshot)
(thud)
*
(birds chirping)
You can't depend on anyone,
okay?
Not even me.
You need to do whatever it takes
to survive.
(solemn music)
*
(gunshot)
(woman speaking indistinctly
over intercom)
GUARD: (clears throat)
Isabela.
They told me I had a visitor.
-I was just not expecting--
-I had to come.
Um, when Cortez took you away,
I thought I'd never
see you again,
and that broke my heart.
That's why I came.
To tell you that
and to tell you
that you were right.
About everything.
You were right,
and I was so stupid.
-Isabela--
-Let me finish, please.
*
I wanted to believe
Dad's lies so bad
that I betrayed you,
that I turned my back on you.
And I was wrong.
I hope you can forgive me.
*
No.
It's me...
that has to ask
for your forgiveness.
You were wrong
about your father...
But you were right about me.
*
I let my ambition...
This need,
drive me away from
the most important thing...
You.
*
I just hope that,
when I get out of here...
*
We can start over.
I'd like that.
*
Are you still being
released tonight?
Yeah.
Then I'll be there waiting.
ALONZO: Highway patrol
stopped two women
matching Teresa and Kelly Anne's
description late last night
driving that car.
POSTAK: No service out here.
We can't call for backup.
Yeah, we wait,
and we could lose them again.
*
Watch my back.
I'm going in.
*
(beeping)
Okay, now,
how did you do that?
So you click the items,
and then you release them
by pressing L.
Mm...
(alarm blaring)
Somebody's here.
(gun clicks)
(alarm blaring)
I'm not going to prison.
I'll handle him.
Get Kelly Anne and Tony
and get out of here.
No, I'm not leaving you alone.
I can't let anything
happen to them.
Please.
*
I'll go out first.
Stay here with Tony.
(keypad beeps, alarm ceases)
*
Let me speak with Teresa.
Just wanna talk.
First, let my friends leave.
What I have to say
affects everyone in that cabin.
This isn't a negotiation.
Let's go.
*
Your gun.
Something happens to Teresa,
I will hunt you down.
*
Inside.
(engine turns over)
Tell whoever's out there
to let them through.
Anyone tries to stop them,
you know what happens.
*
Let 'em pass.
POSTAK (over radio):
Copy that.
*
Inside.
(door creaks)
You wanna talk?
You mind pointing that thing
somewhere else?
Talk.
What do you want?
You know what I want.
Cooperate with me
against Camila.
We already had
this conversation.
Yeah, that was before
Camila was trying to kill you.
You're on the run.
And it doesn't take a genius
to know who you're running from.
You're here
to offer protection?
No.
I'm here to offer you life.
(ominous music)
*
POSTAK: Denny?
What are you doing out here?
Got a call for backup.
From who?
Wasn't you?
No, it wasn't.
(car approaching)
Who the hell is this?
They're with the tactical unit.
*
You think Camila's
just gonna let you walk off
into the sunset?
You're smarter than that.
I'm not a rat.
That little kid
that's here with you,
you think he cares
about your street code?
He wants to live.
So does Kelly Anne
and so do you.
It's not that easy.
ALONZO: Yes, it is.
Help me put Camila away,
and you'll be protected--
all of you.
But if you don't come
with me now, chances are,
the next time I see you,
you'll be in a body bag.
*
-Hands in the air!
-Val, listen--
-Now!
-You need to calm down.
-(shouts in Spanish)
-Val--
Don't move, Denny!
(gunshot)
*
What was that?
Who's out there?
(winces) Shit!
*
(gunshots)
You lied to me.
No, I--I swear to God.
I have to get out of here,
move!
*
(engine revving)
TERESA: Go.
(gunshot)
(gunshots)
(glass shattering)
(electricity crackles)
*
Postak, Postak!
Come in, Postak!
How many are out there?
I can't tell.
Who are they?
They must be someone
that Camila sent.
How bad are you hurt?
I'll live, for now.
But I'm gonna need a gun.
It's the only way.
You gotta trust me.
(gunshots)
(glass shattering)
*
(grunting)
I got 12 rounds.
What are you holding?
-15.
-(sighs)
Okay, we gotta conserve.
Don't shoot
until you got a clear target.
Okay.
*
What are they doing out there?
MAN (over radio):
(speaking Spanish)
*
This is Special Agent Loya
with the DEA.
Who's this?
So you're
the big, bad wolf, huh?
MAN: I've come for the girl.
She has something
that belongs to Camila.
Send her out, and you'll live.
What is he talking about?
It's a trick.
*
You know I can't do that.
MAN: Then I will huff,
and I will puff,
and I will blow your house in.
I'm in here.
Come and get me.
What the hell are you doing?
I'm not gonna sit around
and wait to die.
I'm gonna give them a target.
When they fire,
you see where they are,
then you shoot.
Okay, ready?
*
(gunshots)
(glass shattering)
-How did we do?
-Got one of them.
Okay, one more time.
Ready?
Wait!
(groans)
They got a bead on us.
(ominous music)
*
Drop it, Val.
I will shoot you.
I said put it down.
*
What do you think?
It's your turn to look.
*
(gunshots)
(glass shattering)
(gasping)
Whatever you did, you must've
really pissed Camila off.
I just wanted out.
*
Tony's video game...
(gunshots)
(glass shattering)
*
ALONZO: It's a tracking device.
That must be how they found you.
It was a gift from James.
(thudding)
Is this when you tell me
what a fool I was?
No, this is where
I'll say I'm sorry,
truly.
*
We didn't just meet.
I was targeted.
-(grunts)
-Oh!
(both grunting)
POSTAK: Ahh!
*
(gunshot)
(thudding)
Someone's on the roof.
What the hell are they doing?
(clanging)
ALONZO: Take cover! Grenade!
(high-pitched ringing)
(muffled gunshots)
*
(distorted ringing)
(gunshots)
(glass shattering)
(gas hissing)
-(groans)
-(coughing)
(grunts)
*
(coughs)
ALONZO: They're inside!
*
(grunting)
-(yells)
-(grunts)
(both grunting)
(screams)
(snarls)
(screaming)
*
Not so big and bad now.
(gunshot)
*
You still think I'm gonna
end up in a body bag?
(scoffs) No.
But if you don't come with me,
we both know who you'll become.
He doesn't know
what he's talking about.
A queen isn't made.
She's born.
You were baptized in blood
a long time ago.
*
Every time I run, people die.
That won't change
if I go with you.
The only way to stop it
is to fight.
*
I'm gonna let you
walk out of here
'cause you saved my life,
but you need to know...
*
I'll be coming for you.
Get in line.
*
(engine turns over)
Loya, Loya!
You all right?
(sighs) Barely.
What's that?
(grunts)
*
Our smoking gun.
WOMAN (over TV):
All of this
adds to the picture
of violence
surrounding the Vargas cartel,
including a recent clash
with DEA agents where
a spokesman for the agency...
(knocking)
(gun clicks)
WOMAN (over TV): ...has paid
the ultimate price.
DEA Special Agent in Charge
Karen Trusdale
was quoted as saying,
"Of course we are doing
everything in our power"...
(broadcast continues
indistinctly)
WOMAN (over TV):
...The continuing efforts
of Agent Alonzo Loya,
who made this a reality...
Whose house is this?
Don't worry.
They move.
WOMAN (over TV):
...will finally face a judge.
Officials from
the Drug Enforcement Agency
are already bracing
for what's expected to be
a bloody power struggle
between rival cartels
vying to take her place.
Vargas was about to be
released on bail.
However, DEA Agent Loya
turned up new evidence,
an alleged smoking gun
tied her to Colibri Trawlers,
a shipping company
that was tied
to the recent seizure
of 250 kilos
in Galveston.
We now go live at
the Dallas County Courthouse.
What is the scene here
at the courthouse today?
MAN (over TV):
Lawyers for Camila Vargas
have made
an official statement
to the press today,
calling the charges baseless
and totally without merit
and implied a lawsuit against
the federal government
may be in the works.
*
(door shuts)
This fight is between
me and Camila.
I can't ask you to stay.
I'm not going anywhere.
*
James is the one that
told Camila where Tony was.
That's how the
sicarios found us.
They were playing me
the whole time.
You only saw the bait,
never the hook.
*
In the morning,
can you take
Tony and Kelly Anne
somewhere Camila
can't find them?
Don't worry.
They'll be safe.
Then what?
Then we're gonna
go back to Dallas.
Take what's rightfully mine.
*